The body produces antibodies
to protect us from outside organisms,
but occasionally it can work against
one of its own organs.]
The thyroid gland is an organ
sometimes attacked by antibodies.
When antibodies attack the thyroid gland,
the resulting condition is called
Hashimoto’s thyroiditis
named after the Japanese surgeon,
Hakaru Hashimoto.
In Hashimoto’s disease,
the thyroid gland is slowly destroyed,
resulting in an enlargement of the gland,
a lowering of thyroid function,
and a reduced production of its
important hormone, thyroxin.
Surgical reduction or removal of the gland
and medical replacement of thyroxin
is the usual treatment.